So we pass data from parent to child and the other way around and we saw two different ways of doing
that, with a custom event or using a callback.
Now I want to get some data from one child to another one
and how can we do this?
We got two or depending on how you counted, three different ways of doing so, let's start with method number
one.
Let's say in the user added component here, I will have a new button which allows me to edit the age, here
I will have a new click listener where I say edit age and I need to add an object here where I say
or where I have some methods, one of them being edit age where I want to set some age to let's say 30
but I don't have an age object there yet.
So I will store that in the parent component in the user component, here in my data object and I'll also
have an age which is 27 by default.
I want to pass this as a prop, let's name it user age and refer to the age in my data property to the user
added component,
this is how we learned it before
and there, I therefore now need to set up my props and I'll keep it simple and stick to an array,
don't want to set up validation here and simply name it user age
since this is the name I'm using in my parent component here for the prop.
Now that gives me the age in the user edit component, I can change it there
and with that, it will stay there.
Now let's say in user detail, I also want to output the age,
so there I also pass user age referring to this age in the data object again and in user detail,
I therefore add it here, user age which will be a number actually,
so let's set it of type number and in there, I now want to get the update from the user edit component.
Now let's see this in action by adding a new field, user age and outputting user age, this prop I'm getting
there. If this reloads,
we see 27 here and let's maybe also output it in the user edit component so that we can see the
current value we have there, user age is user age here too, the prop we're getting again
and of course I also need to set this to user age
therefore since this is the prop name.
So now if I click edit age and well maybe reload first,
so now if I click edit age here, it changes to 30 in the user edit component but not in the user detail component here.
There it is still 27
and the reason for this of course is that the change only happened in the user edit component, we're
not passing it to our parent component
and we don't want to get to the parent component,
we only want to get it to let's say the user detail component.
However as I explained on the slides, this direct connection is not possible,
we have to take route over the parent component.
So one way to change it and that is the first way of doing so would be to set up a custom event we emit,
so here when we edit the age, I also called emit and pass an event named age was edited and passing
this user age as an argument here
and then on the user component, I can on my user edit component, I can set up a listener with add age was
edited,
this is the name I chose here for the event
and in the code I execute, I can simply say age equals $event referring to the data which
was passed with the event which was the updated age.
Now with this in place, if I save this and go back to the application and reload it, if I now click on
edit age here, watch the age in the user detail component, it was set to 30 now too because now we
take the following route.
We have the age set up in the user component and we pass it as a prop to both the user detail and user
edit component, thereafter we change it in the user edit component and we emit a custom
event back to the user component. There we with that event, we listened on this event or we listened
to this event and once the event is executed or happens, we update the age in the user component
hence passing the new value down as a property to all components which use this property again,
therefore also updating it
in the user detailed component.
The second approach would have been to use this callback solution,
now I'm not going to show it here,
we would have basically set up a method in the user component, in the parent component like we did with
reset name then pass a pointer to that function like we did for the user detail component to the user
edit component as a property, as a prop and then execute it in the user edit component.
So basically the same approach we used for the user name and reset name here,
I'm not going to show this because it's identical.
The third alternative however is brand new and this might be the solution you're looking for because
building these from child to parent to child chains can become very complicated quickly.
Imagine you got a child component in a child component in a parent component and you want to get to
another child component in another child component.
So you have the child components as siblings and in these child components, have another child component,
then you would have to go from child to child to parent to child to child.
No that's no fun,
instead we can use an event bus for this.
So kind of an object serving as a place to listen to events and passing data on.
Let's see how that would work.